---
title: "Snort: The Intrusion Detection System"
category: linux
layout: post
---

There are a few different tools that can be used to search for alert data on packet captures.
Snort is one popular tool.
Another popular tool is suricata.
Snort has almost unlimited options to configure it, and while the community has a large ruleset, users can write their own, and there are also paid rulesets available as well (typically updated faster than the open source ones), and they may be using additional data sets not available to the public (like IP reputation scores).
By default, the version of snort that comes with Ubuntu 14.04 runs as a service and starts automatically.
This can be disabled by running sudo update-rc.d snort disable.
Using the default config file is a good starting point, but changes and tweaks can be made as needed (such as updating the rules).
Ubuntu also protects the config file from being read by normal users.
To fix this, Snort can be run as the root user (by using sudo), or you can change permissions on the config file (`sudo chmod o+r /etc/snort/snort.conf`) and run snort as the normal user (more secure).

## Useful flags
```
-c <config file> - specifies the config file
-r <pcap file> - specifies the packet capture file to read
-b - Output the suspect packets into a pcap format (instead of text)
-l <directory> - specifies the output directory for the logs
```

## Session Data
There are several useful pieces of data than can be extracted from session data.
First, which protocols/ports are heavily used, and therefore probably 'normal traffic’ and those which are not (worth more inspection).
It also makes it easy to see if port scans are happening. Session data can also show the IP addresses that are involved in the attack, either as the attacker, or as the victim (perhaps yet to be determined).

_Note: much of this content is taken verbatim from a separate lab assignment_
